# Common

## Added basic CMDB interface.

The first CMDB module is based on YAML files. With this change there will be also a default environment under which rex runs. The default environment is named \* drum roll \* "default".

Copy to clipboard

    use Cwd 'getcwd';
    use Rex::CMDB;

    set cmdb => {
       type => "YAML",
       path => getcwd() . "/cmdb",
    };

    task "prepare", sub {
       my $vhosts = get cmdb "vhosts";
    };

This will search the given cmdb path for the following files (in the named order):

1.  cmdb/$environment/$server.yml
2.  cmdb/$environment/default.yml
3.  cmdb/$server.yml
4.  cmdb/default.yml

If it find the value for "vhosts" in one of these files, it will return that value and exit the search.

## VirtualBox

It is now possible to use VirtualBox in headless mode on MacOSX and Linux.

Copy to clipboard

    set  virtualization => { 
       type => "VBox",
       headless => TRUE
    };

    task "foo", sub {
        vm start => "myvm";
    };

If you're using Rex/Boxes you can set this option in your YAML file.

Copy to clipboard

    type: VBox
    vbox:
       headless: true
    vms:
       www01:
          url: http://box.rexify.org/box/ubuntu-server-12.10-amd64.ova
          network:
             1:
                type: bridged
                bridge: eth0
          setup: setup_frontend

## INI style group files

From Franky Van Liedekerke.

Copy to clipboard

    ; my group file
    [frontends]
    fe01
    fe02

    fe03
    fe04
    fe05

    # the backends
    [backends]
    be01
    be02
    ;be03
    be04

    [db]
    db[01..02]

Copy to clipboard

    use Rex::Group::Lookup::INI;

    groups_file "file.ini";

## Source global /etc/profile

There is a new setting called source\_global\_profile. This will source /etc/profile before every run() command.

On some systems this is needed because the user's profile (.bashrc, .bash\_profile) doesn't source the global file. Before you use this function consider changing your .bashrc.

Copy to clipboard

    source_global_profile TRUE;

## Bugs

-   refactored sudo module for \#98 - Dominik Schulz
-   refactored path calculation for upload(), file() and template() functions (\#103 and \#101)
-   export update\_system sub - Ferenc Erki
-   fixed regex which gets name of interfaces - Fran Rodriguez
-   fixed dmidecode on OpenBSD

