---
title: Release notes for 0.42
date: 2019-12-01
---

# Common

#### Net::OpenSSH connection mode - chenryn

As of this release it is possible to use Net::OpenSSH for the connection. With this it is also possible to use kerberos authentication and all features OpenSSH has (like ProxyCommand, etc.).

To use Net::OpenSSH you have to set the connection type in your Rexfile.

This fixes long standing pull request \#70.

    ```perl
    use Rex -feature => '0.42';
    
    set connection => 'OpenSSH';
    
    task 'yourtask', 'yourserver', sub {
        say run 'uptime';
    };
    ```

#### Kerberos authentication - chenryn

If you want to use kerberos authentication you have to use Net::OpenSSH.

    ```perl
    set connection => "OpenSSH";
    
    user "youruser";
    krb5_auth;
    ```

#### Custom user for sudo command

It is now possible to use custom users for the sudo command.

    ```perl
    task "mytask", "server1", sub {
        sudo {
            user    => "foo",
            command => "id",
        };
    };
    ```

#### new function delete\_lines\_according\_to - liedekef

This function is similar to delete\_lines\_matching but with an other syntax and the possibility to use the on\_change hook if the file was changed.

    ```perl
    task "cleanup", "server1", sub {
        delete_lines_according_to qr{^foo:}, "/etc/passwd", on_change => sub {
            say "removed user foo.";
        };
    };
    ```

#### new feature flag use\_server\_auth to enable auth properties in INI files

#### define server groups with special server properties in INI files

The INI file feature is improved to allow custom properties for servers and to allow inheritance of sections.

You have to use use\_server\_auth feature flag for this.

    ```perl
    # Rexfile
    use Rex -feature => [qw/use_server_auth/];
    use Rex::Group::Lookup::INI;
    groups_file('servergroups.ini');
    ```

    ; my group file
    [frontends]
    fe01
    fe02

    fe03
    fe04
    fe05

    # the backends
    [backends]
    be01
    be02
    ;be03
    be04

    [db]
    db[01..02]

    [redis]
    @backends
    redis01
    redis02

    [memcache < redis]
    memcache01
    memcache02 user=root password=foob4r sudo=true services=apache,memcache

This will create the following groups:

    frontends: fe01, fe02, fe03, fe04, fe05
    backends: be01, be02, be04
    db: db01, db02
    redis: be01, be02, be04, redis01, redis02
    memcache: be01, be02, be04, redis01, redis02, memcache01, memcache02

memcache02 will use custom authentication and there will be a special option "services" for this server that can be queried like this:

    ```perl
    task "mytask",
      group => "memcache",
      sub {
        say connection->server->option("services");
      };
    ```

#### cwd option for run command

    ```perl
    run "ls -l", cwd => "/home";
    ```

### Speed improvements

-   \#123 - File manipulation speed for sed - liedekef
-   \#133 - speed of delete\_lines\_matching function - liedekef
-   \#135 \#136 \#137 - speed improvement for os detection - liedekef
-   \#143 - speed of append\_if\_no\_such\_line - liedekef

# Bugfixes/cleanups/enhancements

-   \#115 - fixed the most possible things (sudo\_without\_sh flag)
-   removed Blastwave package capabilities from Solaris, because Blastwave doesn't exist anymore
-   \#129 - removed an unnecessary opendir call - liedekef
-   \#148 - use equery for Rex::Pkg::Gentoo in get\_installed, later replaced by \#165 - tianon
-   \#149 - updated most of Rsync with server-specific auth - tianon
-   \#159 - Don't execute a task if the defined group doesn't contain servers. There is a feature flag to disable this behavior (empty\_groups)
-   \#163 - Rex::Pkg::Gentoo: Fix separator character between package name and version - ferki
-   \#165 - Rex::Pkg::Gentoo: Replace get\_installed checking method - ferki

