Common
======

#### Inventory cache

If you want to cache the inventory and to use this cache for subsequent rex calls, you can use the *REX\_CACHE\_TYPE* environment variable.

Copy to clipboard

    REX_CACHE_TYPE=YAML rex $task

This will create a folder ".cache" and creates a separate cache file for each host. If you want to use a different folder you can set it in the *REX\_CACHE\_PATH* environment variable.

You can also set the cache type inside your *Rexfile*

Copy to clipboard

    # Rexfile

    user "root";
    password "...";
    cache "YAML";

It is also possible to create custom cache classes. For example if you want to save the inventory cache inside a database. Just take a look at [Rex::Interface::Cache::YAML](https://github.com/RexOps/Rex/blob/master/lib/Rex/Interface/Cache/YAML.pm) to see how it is implemented.

#### Reporting of changes

If you want to get a report of the changes Rex had done on your systems, you can use the new reporting feature.

Currently not every Rex function gets monitored by this feature, but all important ones are. This feature will be extended with version 2 of rex.

To activate the reporting you can use the *REX\_REPORT\_TYPE* environment variable or use the *reporting* feature inside your *Rexfile*.

Copy to clipboard

    REX_REPORT_TYPE=YAML rex the-task

Or, within the *Rexfile*

Copy to clipboard

    # Rexfile
    use Rex -base;
    report -on => "YAML";

The YAML report will be created inside a directory called *report*. If you want to use a different directory you can set it with a special variable.

Copy to clipboard

    use Rex -base;
    report -on => "YAML";
    set report_path => "/path/to/";

It is also possible to create custom reporting classes. Just take a look at [Rex::Report::RexIO](https://github.com/RexIO/rex-io-reports/blob/master/rex/lib/Rex/Report/RexIO.pm).

#### New CLI commands to better integrate Rex into your shell scripts

With these commands it is easy to use Rex from within a shell script.

You can test these scripts by checking out the [krimdomu/rex-shell-extension](https://github.com/krimdomu/rex-shell-extension) GitHub repository.

Login to fe01.my.lan and execute uptime

Copy to clipboard

    #!/bin/bash
    export REX_REMOTE_HOST="fe01.my.lan"
    GROUPS=$(rex-run "id -Gn www-data")
    for group in $GROUPS; do
        echo $group
    done

Login to fe01.my.lan, testing if /etc/sudoers is there, and if not, install package and upload a template sudoers file

Copy to clipboard

    #!/bin/bash
    export REX_REMOTE_HOST="fe01.my.lan"

    if ! rex-test -f /etc/sudoers; then
       rex-install sudo
       rex-template files/sudoers.tpl | rex-upload "/etc/sudoers"
    fi

#### Initial support for OpenWrt (FErki)

In a limited way, Rex now supports OpenWrt.

#### Enhancements

-   atomic uploads - \#220

rex will now only upload a file if it really changes and it will upload the file into a temporary file and rename it after the upload.

-   setting options for OpenSSH connection mode

Copy to clipboard

    Rex::Config->set_openssh_opt(StrictHostKeyChecking => "no");

-   set temporary directory - \#166

Copy to clipboard

    user "foo";
    password "b4r";
    tmp_dir "/home/foo/tmp";

    task "mytask", "myserver", sub {
    };

-   if a given feature flag isn't supported, Rex will now die() - \#177

-   Rex now has an interface to support other shells than bash in a pluggable way. (Gnouc) - \#180

-   Prefer ip command over ifconfig (ferki) - \#194

-   Turn "eval your Rexfile" into a debug message (aowi) - \#186

-   yum operations are now silent by default - \#214

-   rexify command to use proxy settings - \#213, \#231 (ajaxhelios)

-   added another Red Hat Enterprise flavor - \#231 (ajaxhelios)

#### Bugfixes

-   Support port with ranged hostnames - \#196

-   Fixed bug in sync\_up module if used in modules - \#206

-   Fix a typo in example code - \#195 Boris Däppen

-   Zero values in crontab fields - \#189 Ferenc Erki

-   zypper --no-gpg-checks option - \#210


