---
title: Release notes for 0.47.0
---

These are the changes in 0.47 release.

We want to thank all the people for contributing code and to fill bug reports. This helps making Rex better and better :)

## Security

-   Use https to communicate with Amazon (Cloud).

## Rex::Test

With Rex::Test it is possible to test your Rexfile on a local VM before executing the code on your servers.

-   Rex::Box now also works with KVM

        use Rex::Test::Base;
        use Data::Dumper;
        use Rex -base;

        set box => "KVM";

        test {
          my $t = shift;

          $t->name("ubuntu test");

          $t->base_vm(
            "http://box.rexify.org/box/ubuntu-server-12.10-amd64.img");
          $t->vm_auth( user => "root", password => "box" );

          $t->run_task("setup");

          $t->has_package("vim");
          $t->has_package("ntp");
          $t->has_package("unzip");
          $t->has_file("/etc/ntp.conf");
          $t->has_service_running("ntp");
          $t->has_content( "/etc/passwd", qr{root:x:0:}ms );

          run "ls -l";
          $t->ok( $? == 0, "ls -l returns success." );

          $t->finish;
        };

        1;

## Base

-   Read server groups from xml file - nathanIL

        use Rex::Group::Lookup::XML;
        group_xml "file.xml";

        <configuration>
           <group name="database">
                <server name="machine01" user="root" password="foob4r" sudo="true" hdd="300" loc="/opt" />
           </group>
           <group name="application">
                <server name="machine01" user="root" password="foob4r" sudo="true" hdd="50" loc="/export" />
                <server name="machine02" user="root" password="foob5r" sudo="true"/>
           </group>
           <group name="profiler">
                <server name="machine03" user="root" password="blue123"/>
           </group>
        </configuration>

-   It is now possible to define **before**, **around** and **after** hooks for all tasks in one namespace with the `ALL` keyword.

        before ALL => sub { }

-   Extended service() resource, so that it is now possible to define what it should do for the different actions.

        task "prepare", sub {
          service "apache2",
            ensure => "started",
            start  => "/usr/local/bin/httpd -f /etc/my/httpd.conf",
            stop   => "killall httpd",
            status => "ps -efww | grep httpd",
            restart =>
            "killall httpd && /usr/local/bin/httpd -f /etc/my/httpd.conf",
            reload =>
            "killall httpd && /usr/local/bin/httpd -f /etc/my/httpd.conf";
        };

-   Syntax enhancement of **group** command \#369 - Jens Berthold

        group "g1",
          "srv1" => { user => "other" },
          "srv2";

-   Package-Management with pkgng on FreeBSD 10

-   Amazon Linux is now detected properly.

-   Added MacOSX (Darwin) Network inventory module

-   Ident task description when running -T - Nathan Abu

-   added exclude option to sync commands - Cameron Daniel

## Bugfixes

-   Update default VNC listen address for KVM machines - FErki

-   Fixed two problems where rsync can't authenticate on the remote host

-   Fixed run() command when used with callback and environment - alex1line

-   shell\_path variable is not checked for empty value before use \#376 - Ilya Evseev

-   Avoid warning if there's nothing to upgrade (update\_system) - FErki

-   Fixed compatibility with perl 5.20. - FErki

-   Fixed a problem in the user management module if no /etc/shadow file was present.

-   Fixed inline templates in modules


