---
title: Release notes for 0.54.3
---

These are the changes in 0.54 release.

We want to thank every contributor that makes this release possible.

## Common

#### path\_map - variable path mapping

path\_map is a new feature developed by Erik Huelsmann to ease the management of files for different hosts. In the past, if you wanted to upload a file (for example /etc/security/access.conf) to your servers and wanted to have different access.conf files per environment, or for a special host, you had to build this logic by yourself. With the *path\_map* feature you only have to define the lookup path and Rex is doing this for you.

    ```perl
    use Rex -feature => ['0.54'];
    
    set path_map => {
      "files/" => [
        "files/{environment}/{hostname}/", "files/{environment}/",
        "files/{hostname}/",
      ],
      "templates/" => [
        "templates/{environment}/{hostname}/", "templates/{environment}/",
        "templates/{hostname}/",
      ],
    };
    
    task "setup",
      group => "frontends",
      sub {
      file "/etc/security/access.conf",
        source => "files/etc/security/access.conf",
        owner  => "root",
        group  => "root",
        mode   => 644;
    
      file "/etc/ntp.conf",
        content => template("templates/etc/ntp.conf"),
        owner   => "root",
        group   => "root",
        mode    => 644;
      };
    ```

This example will search for the files it should upload or process as templates in the following direction:

**Given:**

-   environment = production
-   hostname = fe01

**Lookup-Path:**

-   files/production/fe01/etc/security/access.conf
-   files/production/etc/security/access.conf
-   files/fe01/etc/security/access.conf
-   files/etc/security/access.conf

**And for the template it is just the same:**

-   templates/production/fe01/etc/ntp.conf
-   templates/production/etc/ntp.conf
-   templates/fe01/etc/ntp.conf
-   templates/etc/ntp.conf

You can use **any** variable that the inventory can [gather from the system](/docs/rex_book/writing_modules/getting_information_of_the_environment.html).

## Cloud

-   **Jiffybox** - Added possibility to clone a jiffybox image. \#439 - Peter Manthey

## Bugfixes

### Rex::Test

-   Only execute testfiles which end on .t - \#434 - Robert Abraham
-   Close last used ssh connection after test - \#433 - Robert Abraham
-   Check if file exists before checking contents - fix \#432 - FErki

### Cloud

-   **OpenStack** - Fixed return value for flavors function - \#406 - exzz

### Common

-   Add error message when attempting to run a non-existing task - FErki
-   Refactored the behaviour of set() function to do what it is saying. So with feature 0.54 enabled set is always overwriting the existing values. (\#425)
-   Add service\_exists for Gentoo - FErki
-   Fixing nested sudo operations. - \#423
-   Added check if service exists - \#407
-   Handle hostgroup members with leading numeric ranges - FErki
-   Redirect nohup output to /dev/null
-   Make apt-listchanges non-interactive - \#417 - aowi
-   Don't try to run dmidecode if it is not in PATH - Andrej Zverev
-   Enhanced support for pkgng (FreeBSD) - Andrej Zverev
-   Fixed Rex::Commands::MD5::md5() to obey path settings
-   Add documentation for run() function. - \#440 - Erik Huelsmann

