This is a new minor release,
adding new features,
upgrade is recommended for all users.

As you may have noticed,
the last release of Rex is around 6 months old.
A lot has happened since then,
and due to bigger internal changes,
we wanted to be extra careful about the release,
giving it as much time to bake as it needed.

The result is so far the biggest release of Rex,
containing 4353 insertions and 1655 deletions
happened to the lines of 118 files
on 271 commits
from 16 contributors,
closing 93 PRs and 48 issues.
To put it in perspective,
this means ~30% of all files,
and ~20% of all lines
were touched in one way or another.

We couldn't have done this without the support
of our fantastic community,
keeping us busy with feedback,
discussions both on- and offline,
reporting issues,
and sending pull requests.
Thank you!

We are especially happy to have Eric Johnson (kablamo)
to join the project as a new core developer.
Most of the big things in this release
were originally his ideas,
and he was restless implementing them.

We would like to welcome
H. Daniel Cesario,
Harm Müller,
Hiroki Matsuo,
Jose Luis Perez Diez,
Ken Crowell,
Patrick Lauer,
petersonchen,
Prajithp
as new contributors.

So as they say:

_Good things come to those who wait_

## Highlights

 - Rex can now manage Linux Mint, Raspian and Arch Linux systems
 - tasks return exit codes
 - summary output at the end of run
 - unified firewall management via a new resource
 - ParamLookup has been merged into core from rex-recipes
 - values from CMDB and task parameters are now available directly as template variables
 - better late, than never: official debian 8 packages
 - experimental vim highlight support (see [this gist](https://gist.github.com/ferki/d83ebd67ce828ef9d00f))
 - rex can use development versioning on CPAN correctly now (e.g. for BETA or RC releases) to provide early access

## New features

### New Mkfs command

Now there's a dedicated `Mkfs` command,
split out from LVM and partition handling modules,
to deal with file system creation.

 * start of refactor mkfs/mkswap into their own pm - Peter H. Ezetta
 * starting to add option parsing - Peter H. Ezetta
 * setting up logic for lvm vs raw disk - Peter H. Ezetta
 * error checking on $lvname - Peter H. Ezetta
 * code cleanup and addition of POD - Peter H. Ezetta
 * refactoring swap logic into mkfs logic, silly to separate. - Peter H. Ezetta
 * refactor Partition.pm, fix $lv_name in Mkfs.pm - Peter H. Ezetta
 * Refactoring LVM.pm to use mkfs(); - Peter H. Ezetta
 * Ensuring that labels can be added to swap partitions - Peter H. Ezetta
 * Add Rex::Commands::Mkfs to rexify and pp.args - Ferenc Erki
 * Check for fstype existence at the start - Ferenc Erki
 * Skip creating filesystems for some reserved words - Ferenc Erki
 * Don't fail mkfs if label is undefined - Ferenc Erki
 * Pass options to mkfs (#fix 905) - Ferenc Erki

### Improved argument parsing

As a preparation of another planned feature,
it is now possible to pass arguments and CLI options to rex tasks,
even if multiple ones are asked to be run.
Please be aware
this might not be a fully backwards compatible change for your use case,
so you need to enable it first with the `task_chaining_cmdline_args` feature flag.

For example:

<pre><code class="bash">rex lib:task1 --option1=value1 lib:task2 --option2=value2
rex lib:task1 --option=value1 lib:task2 --option=value2
rex lib:task1 <arg> --option=value
</code></pre>

 * Don't parse @ARGV on import. - Eric Johnson
 * added feature flag for 1.4 and removed deprecated warning of Rex::RunList - Jan
 * fixed a logic bug, that prevents batch creation - Jan
 * default to empty task list - Jan
 * Exit with an error message when a bad task name is used. - Eric Johnson
 * Add missing Data::Dumper import - Ken Crowell
 * Fix regression in deprecated static call to Rex::Task->run() - Eric Johnson
 * added Rex::Args->get method again. fixes #860 - Jan
 * don't clone task object. When cloned before_task_start/after_task_finished hooks doesn't work - fix #919 - Jan
 * check if task is no object, and get the task object then - Jan Gehring
 * fixed issue of calling Rex::Args->get inside before_task_start - RexOps/Rex#934 - Jan

### New supported OSes

Managing Arch Linux is now supported via a completely new module,
while Linux Mint and Raspbian are being recognized as Debian clones.

 * Recognize LinuxMint as a Debian clone (close #506) - Ferenc Erki
 * Recognize Raspbian as a Debian clone - Ferenc Erki
 * added archlinux support - Harm Müller
 * Remove purge package action on arch (fix #867) - Ferenc Erki

### ParamLookup

`Rex::Ext::ParamLookup` from the [RexOps/rex-recipes](https://github.com/RexOps/rex-recipes) repository
is now living in core as `Rex::Helper::Rexfile::ParamLookup`.

`param_lookup` is a command to manage task parameters.

<pre><code class="perl">my $var = param_lookup "param_name", "default_value";
</code></pre>

First param_lookup checks the task parameters for `param_name`.
If it's not found, it tries to look it up from CMDB (if CMDB is used).
If it's still not found, it falls back to `default_value`.
Additionally it registers the parameters as template values.

 * added ParamLookup and registering task parameter as template variables. - Jan
 * fixed a bug that was introduced by b0416b1710611b900284ba5a2d9d74991fc4351b - Jan
 * also lookup task name in cmdb - Jan
 * don't concat caller package anymore - Jan
 * fixed call of task as functions with normal parameters, #827 - Jan

### Summary output

Now there's a short summary displayed at the end of each run,
containing success/failure info of the executed tasks.
If there were any errors,
they are listed by remote machine (ordered by hostname).

 * Summarize success/failure at the end of a run - Eric Johnson
 * Summary tests for all permutations of Parallel::ForkManager, Base, and exec_autodie - Eric Johnson
 * fixed calling of exit hooks after summary - Jan Gehring
 * Fix summary tests for Mac OS X - Ferenc Erki
 * print the error message in the summary when a task die()d - Jan
 * Use error level output in the summary if some tasks failed - Ferenc Erki
 * Refactor summary output - Ferenc Erki
 * Further simplify summary output - Ferenc Erki
 * Sort failure list - Ferenc Erki
 * Fix summary test tasks for Windows - Ferenc Erki
 * don't print summary on rex -T - Jan
 * Exit codes now work when using 'rex -e' (fix #761, close #840) - Eric Johnson
 * Exit codes need to be bit shifted by 8.  Do it in one place. - Eric Johnson
 * fix error code in $? after a run command which was introduced by 6c8441 - Jan
 * remove error message, we don't need it for the tests - Jan
 * try to fix failing tests on freebsd - #901 - Jan
 * Avoid bitshifting error code twice (fix #901) - Ferenc Erki
 * Don't confess upon failure of a non-resource (fix #936) - Ferenc Erki

### Firewall handling

There's a new firewall resource to manage firewall rules.

<pre><code class="perl">firewall "open-port-82-for-1.2.3.4",
    ensure => "present",
    action => "accept",
    port   => 82,
    source => "1.2.3.4";
</code></pre>

The UFW firewall provider has been moved from rex-recipes to core too,
and it is now available on top of the default iptables provider.

On top of that, IPv6 support has been added.

<pre><code class="perl">open_port, [22, 80];    # defaults to IPv4 rule
open_port -4, [22, 80]; # IPv4 rule
open_port -6, [22, 80]; # IPv6 rule
</code></pre>

 * Added a firewall module to manage different firewall models with one interface. - Jan
 * Add support for ip6tables (close #795) - Dmitry Kopytov
 * fixed firewall resource to work with ipv6 patch - Jan
 * detect iptables version and choose syntax for ip adresses - Jan

### CMDB

Now CMDB can contain template code too.

 * YAML cmdb can now contain template code - Jan
 * make environment available inside cmdb template - Jan
 * allow config (set) vars in cmdb templates - Jan
 * Fix template handling in YAML CMDB files - Ferenc Erki

## Enhancements

### Crontab handling

Unprivileged users can now manage their own crontabs.

 * Add \_whoami to determine remote effective username - Ferenc Erki
 * Fix managing a user's own crontab via cron_entry - Ferenc Erki
 * Suppress STDERR during crontab listings - Ferenc Erki

### Templates

 * resource and task now have own namespace for template variables - Jan

### Rexfile/module loading

The way of loading Rexfile and modules,
has completely been refactored,
making it easier to detect potential errors,
and giving more useful feedback about them.

 * Simplify loading the Rexfile and improve error handling. - Eric Johnson
 * Put Rexfile exists check inside load_rexfile() - Eric Johnson
 * Refactor out logic for loading server ini file into load_server_ini_file(). - Eric Johnson
 * Refactor out some code into handle_lock_file() - Eric Johnson
 * Fix indentation - Eric Johnson
 * load a rexfile also if it doesn't return a true value. This fixes a regression - RexOps/Rex#513 - Jan
 * fixed loading of rexfiles with -f - Jan
 * fix loading of libraries in lib directory when use -f path/to/Rexfile - Jan
 * Avoid \_\_Rexfile\_\_ as dependency - Ferenc Erki
 * readd close of stderr - Jan
 * fix loading of Rexfile on perl 5.8.9 - RexOps/Rex#922 - Jan
 * debug output now gets displayed again. - fix RexOps/Rex#910 - Jan
 * Reopen STDERR after loading Rexfile - Dmitry Kopytov

### Guest VM options

Now it is possible to set CPU and memory options for (test) VMs.

 * Allow tests so set Box memory and cpus (close #839) - Patrick Lauer
 * Fix passing memory/cpus options to constructor - Ferenc Erki
 * defaults for cpus and memory - Jan
 * add default values for cpu and memory - Jan

### Documentation

 * Fix GetRex link url - hiroraba
 * Add docs on glob usage with file command (close #712, fix #738) - Jose Luis Perez Diez
 * Updated documentation in bin/rex (pod/man page) - Eric Johnson
 * Updated pod in bin/rex and lib/Rex.pm - Eric Johnson
 * Slightly reword synopsis - Ferenc Erki
 * Fix examples - Ferenc Erki
 * Update docs for partition command - Ferenc Erki
 * Update sudo docs (fix #918) - Ferenc Erki
 * Add docs for Rex::Shared::Var (fix #920) - Ferenc Erki
 * Update docs for Rex::Task - Ferenc Erki

### General

A bunch of general enhancements happened:

 - host-specific sudo settings now take precedence
 - colored log output on Windows (if `Win32::Console::ANSI` is present)
 - supporting `key_url` and `key_file` for Red Hat repositories
 - shell detection has been improved
 - we can use development versioning now to make BETA and RC releases available early
 - `do_task` now accepts and handles parameters passed to it
 - less verbose connection output

Full list of commits:

 * Avoid unnecessary package rebuilds on Gentoo (close #809) - Patrick Lauer
 * Added option for rebase during pull. - Eivin Giske Skaaren
 * Mute noisy tests - Ferenc Erki
 * Use static comments to avoid alignment change later - Ferenc Erki
 * Fix static side comments - Ferenc Erki
 * give server configuration precedence - Jan
 * Custom storage path for kvm - Prajithp
 * use can_run to detect arp command - Jan Gehring
 * fixed lookup path for arp command - Jan
 * allow nested resources in reports - Jan
 * ignore eclipse files - Jan
 * Prefer uid over getlogin as fallback username (close #793, fix #792) - Ferenc Erki
 * allow mix of modules.rexify.org modules and git modules - Jan
 * Tests for needs() were not useful.  Now they are. - Eric Johnson
 * color for windows - Jan
 * Output full task names (fix #825, close #842) - Daniel Cesario
 * support key_url and key_file also on redhat systems - Jan
 * fixed tests for windows - Jan
 * added tmp to gitignore - Jan
 * Refactor Rex::TaskList.  No functional change. - Eric Johnson
 * fixed reporting of nested resources (changed resource) - Jan
 * only update chained resource when the upper resource wasn't changed before. Also removed 'inside resource check' because this is not needed anymore due to stacked resources - Jan
 * moved detect method to base, because it is everywhere the same, created direct_exec method for all interfaces - Jan
 * fixed inheritance problem, moved shell() method to base class. - Jan
 * remove unnecessary new lines - Jan
 * run shell detection a second time if first time failed - Jan
 * Use development versioning - Ferenc Erki
 * Enable more feature flags for development releases - Ferenc Erki
 * Add tests for task hooks - Ferenc Erki
 * added parameters to do_task and fixed LOCAL block - Jan Gehring
 * removed connecting to mesages (change to debug level) - Jan Gehring
 * can't connect message must be ::info logging - Jan
 * Let service tests be silent - Ferenc Erki

## Bugfixes

### Shared variables

Previously there was a race condition while using Rex::Shared::Var to share variables across tasks.

 * Test for race condition problem in Rex::Shared::Var. - Eric Johnson
 * Avoid race condition when doing IPC. - Eric Johnson
 * Refactor child/parent pid logic + comments to be more readable - Eric Johnson

### Templates

 * use empty string to prevent uninitialized warning messages - Jan
 * Test rendering of false values in templates - Ferenc Erki
 * Fix rendering of false values in templates - Ferenc Erki

### AWS handling

We now use `AWS::Signature4` to talk to Amazon services.

 * added AWS::Signature4 directly to code, due to problems with Centos5 dependencies (#737) - Jan
 * Unbundle AWS::Signature4 - Ferenc Erki

### Draining IO in parallel

The previous way to drain STDOUT/STEDERR output of a remote
(or for that matter, local) connection
proved to be, let's say suboptimal,
leading to potential hangs,
and other weirdness.
This now has been fixed,
moved to a common codebase,
and we cover it with tests.

 * Read STDOUT and STDERR in parallel (fix #756) - Ferenc Erki
 * use sysread to read from filehandle. fixes #887 - Jan
 * Use sysread for local exec interface too (fix #887) - Ferenc Erki
 * fix continuous read bug - RexOps/#951 - Jan
 * Add initial tests for draining IO - Ferenc Erki
 * Fix draining IO - Ferenc Erki
 * Handle partial last chunks from STDOUT and STDERR - Ferenc Erki
 * removed read_buffer reduction - Jan Gehring
 * Update read_buffer test for Windows - Ferenc Erki
 * Test with a bit less output - Ferenc Erki
 * Increase timeout for read_buffer test (fix #954) - Ferenc Erki
 * cleanup newline(s) at the end. fix for #957 - Jan
 * remove chr(13) everywhere - fix #957 - Jan
 * fixed variable usage - Jan
 * Normalize EOL characters earlier (fix #957) - Ferenc Erki

### General

The reporting feature had some troubles when using `bulk_install`,
so until a proper fix,
Rex now simply falls back to sequential package installation as a workaround.

On top of that, the most notable bug fixes are realted to task hooks
and continuous reading of output.

Full list of commits:

 * Fatal exceptions if git switching fail - alex1line
 * fix for Net::OpenSSH can't set initialize_options for the constructor - #796 - Jan Gehring
 * fixes the problem of run_task connecting to the wrong host #788 - Jan Gehring
 * fixed loading of Rex::Commands via require. RexOps/Rex#789 - Jan Gehring
 * lower exitecode to less than 255 because some os have problems with larger ones - Jan
 * Fix undef warnings if calling get() without param - Andy Beverley
 * Map Debian clones correctly - Ferenc Erki
 * iptables_clear should clear only loaded tables - Dmitry Kopytov
 * Checking for a running rex process failed if the pidfile contains a pid that partially matches a running process. - petersonchen
 * Ensure proper test-time connection type (fix #821) - Ferenc Erki
 * use md5 binary if perl module is not available - fix for #834 - Jan
 * report all packages - Jan
 * fixed some unitialized warnings - Jan
 * fix after hook call for connections that wasn't successfull - Jan
 * call after task hook, even if connection to system failed - Jan
 * Fix links in README (fix #853) - Ferenc Erki
 * The after hook now runs even if the ssh connection fails. - Eric Johnson
 * load right cron module if os is \*bsd and shell is csh - #883 - Jan
 * return always shell object - Jan
 * some windows fixes for rexify command - Jan
 * Fix POD - Ferenc Erki
 * fixed loading of resource module in perl 5.8 - RexOps/Rex#917 - Jan
 * Make CPAN Testers happy for unsupported OSes - Ferenc Erki
 * Fix copy-pasta POD errors - Ferenc Erki
