---
title: Release notes for 1.7.1
date: 2019-12-05
---

This is a new bugfix release, most notably avoiding a testing issue on Windows. On top of that, it's mostly about enabling testing on Windows and Mac OS X via Travis CI, plus updates various documentation and metadata. Upgrade is recommended for all users.

This is also the first release with the updated project description: Rex is now known as the friendly automation framework.

Many thanks to all contributors who made this release possible!

## Release highlights

### Symlink testing issue on Windows

The recently added symlink tests were broken on Windows, simply because the test code assumed Linux systems only. Unfortunately CPAN Testers didn't catch this issue in a dev release, which leads us to our next point.

### Add Windows and Mac OS X testing on Travis CI

In order to have early feedback for all three major platforms, Travis CI now helps us running the test suite on Linux, Windows and Mac OS X. Thanks to this, we already could fix some minor issues.

### Rex, the friendly automation framework

Following up on recent changes throughout the project on the website, and in the README, GitHub repo description, Twitter bio, etc., we also updated the project description in the main POD files to improve consistency.

## Bugfixes

  * Update supported Perl versions - Ferenc Erki
  * Don't skip all markdown files - Ferenc Erki
  * Update synopsis - Ferenc Erki
  * Update CPAN metadata - Ferenc Erki
  * Update name and description in POD - Ferenc Erki
  * Clarify POD - Ferenc Erki
  * Fix POD formatting - Ferenc Erki
  * Fix CMDB examples (fix #1151) - Ferenc Erki
  * Test on OS X with Travis CI - Ferenc Erki
  * Fix getting current directory in Windows - Ferenc Erki
  * Skip symlink tests on Windows - Ferenc Erki
  * Test on Windows with Travis CI - Ferenc Erki
  * Update description - Ferenc Erki
